
<? xml version = "1.0" encoding = "UTF-8"? >

<!-last edited 11.09.2001->

<!DOCTYPE Corpus SYSTEM "pftml.dtd" >

<Corpus>

 < Folktale Title = "Vasilisa Prekrasnaya" NewAfanasievEditionNumber = "104" AT = "480" >

 <Move>

 <Preparation>

 <InitialSituation>

 In a certain Kingdom there lived a merchant. For twelve years he lived in marriage and prižil only one daughter, Vasilisa the Beautiful. When her mother died, she was eight years old. Dying, tradeswoman called for a daughter, pulled out from under the blankets, gave her the kulku and said *

**************************

 

The merchant of potužil after the death of his wife, as they should, and then began to think, how would marry again. He was a man of good; * * * * * * *

 

 

 

 

 </InitialSituation>

 </Preparation>

 OCR <Return> from page 127

 For twelve years he lived

cypryžesTve and prižil only one daughter, Vasjlisu transformation the red. When her mother died, she was eight years old.

dying, Tradeswoman called for a daughter, she took from under

odeâla doll, gave her and Said: "Hey, Vasilisuš-Ka! Remember and make the last of my words. I'm dying with the parent and a blessing now, you leave.

This doll; take care ' it is always with you and iepokaz′y.

Wai; and when woe befall thee, give her a poest′c.

first ask her advice. Pokušaet, th will tell you. what help does

happiness. Then the mother kissed her daughter and has died. .'

The merchant of potužil after the death of his wife. as it should, and then became do-

mother would marry again, as He was a man of horošjj; for brides

' ,

It was not, but most of all, like to prJšlas′ him Odnac. little widow.

She was already in Jmela, ' their leTaX two daughters almost the venue

Vasjlice,-a, and the mistress and her mother Experienced. Merchant married

VDOVUŠke, bmanulsâ, and did not find it a good mother for her

Vasilisa, Vasilisa was the first at the BceceAo beauty; stepmother and sister.

,

-Rea zavidovalj her beauty, tormented by her ' vsevozmožiymi works to

 

OCR from page 128

 

She was slender, and works from the wind and became black solnca; all living

 was not!.

                , '

 Vasilisa all pereiosila without a murmur, and every day more prettier

, '

and polnela, the stepmother with their daughters lose weight and durnela from

slosti, despite the fact that they always sat idly as bars.

Neither, how ètotakdelalos′? Vasilisa helped her little doll. Without this

 Where would cope with all-girl rabotoû! But Vasilisa itself,

with

will not eat, and Chrysalis will leave heftiness invoked lakomyi bit, and veČerOM,

as the dust settles, it zappetcâ in tsulan, where they lived, and potčevaet it,

prigovarivaâ: "The nymph, pokyšaj, my grief, listen! I live in

building the batûški don't see any joy; Wicked Stepmother chases me with white light.
Teach me how to me to be and to live and what to do? "the little doll, cokušaet, Yes 
then and gives her advice and comfort in sorrow, and the

all work is having a morning for Vasilisa; the only rests in Jolo.

daughter drvet florets and nee and vypoloty ridges, and the cabbage on ITA, and 
water nanošena, and vytoplena. Chrysalis will more of Hsieh and Vasily grass from sunburn. 
It was good to live with her doll.

Over several years; Vasilisa has grown to become the bride. All the same,

 Niha, on mačehinyh daughters nobody

nor will look. Stepmother zlitsâpuŝeppežnego and grooms otvečaet NES BbydaM men′šoi:
ppeždeCTapšix! ", a ' Pro. leading suitors, beatings and indemnify for evil on Vasilisa.

Then one day the merchant had to leave. Home for a long time on business. Stepmother 
Seay epešla nažiTbe to another House, and near the House was dark, and in-the-forest hut 
stood on the lawn and in the House lived baba-âga: did she not admit and ' ate people
like chickens. After moving to the new home, and then sent a tradeswoman

-for nibyd′ in the forest she hated Vasilisa zavsegda, but the reverse is ŝalas′ dom () th:
Dolly ukazyvala her way and not podpyc-Kala to izbuške baby-Yagi. ,

 three girls came with evening hours:

one made lace plesti, another stockings knit, a-Vasilisuprâst′,

and all the lessons. PogacHAa fire all over the House, left a candle

where were the girls, and she went to bed. The girls worked. Here Is The

with

. nagorelo on the candle, one of mačehinyh dočerei took the tongs to Po.

Edit svetil′nû, da vmestotego, at the behest of his mother, not of čaânn_o area and 
potuillHAa the candle. "Now what do we do? -devuš-Ki said-there is no fire in the
House, and the lessons of our končeny. We should sbegat′za fire to Baba-yaga!»-""-
"Me from the cvetlo pins! She said that pAe-la lace. -I'm not pojdy. -"And I am not
pojdy, said that knitting a stocking-oTCpIC Me light!" "You go for the fire, cried out both. - 

Go to Baba-yaga! "-and you TOAKali Vasilisa of closet.

Vasilisa started his čulančik, poctavHAa ppigotov-Kukloû-front

lennyi dinner and skazala: pokušaj da, pupa, my grief, Ambassador, Shai: I send 
for the fire to babe-âge; Baba yaga will eat. me! "the dolls of Ka poela, her eyes
zablesteli as two candles. "Fear not, Vasilisuš-Ka! She said. Go where I only send.
keep always

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

OCR from page 129

 

 She works and the Sun

                

do it! 

Vasilisa all perenos'ila without a murmur, and every day more prettier

and polnela, the stepmother with their daughters lose weight and durnela anger, despite the fact that They always sat twiddling ruKH, ' as bars-no, How is it done so? Vasilisa helped her little doll. Without this

where would she cope with with rabotoû! But Vasilisa itself,

Will not eat, and Chrysalis will leave AaKoMbIfI's piece, and in the evening,

 as Bceulâgutsâ, she lived, and her potčevaet,

 saying: "Hakukolka, poke my poslušai grief! I live in

dome y batûšktof, vižusebe no joy; wicked-stepmother chases me

with white light. Teach me how to me to be and to live and what to do? "

kukolkapo kyšaet Yes then and gives her sovety and comforted in grief and the

morning all work sppavlâet for Vasilisa; the only rests in the holo-c-Yes my daughter vomits florets, and she and Ridge vypoloty, and cabbage.

LITA, ivodananošena, and vytoplena. Dolly still indicate Vasily.

Xie and grass from sunburn. It was good to live with her doll.

Several years passed; Vasilisa has grown to become the bride. All the same,

Niha in pRRCvatyvaûtsâ to Vasilisa; on mačehinyh daughters and no one will look. Stepmother and ZLitsâpuŝepre. all grooms responds:

"Vydam men′šon ppežde starših ppovodâ!", and the suitors, beating you.

indemnify for evil to Vasilisa.

Then one day the merchant had to leave. Home for a long time

trade Mačehaiperešla"naži. in another delaM House, near

This home was dremučii forest, in the Woods in a clearing, stood a hut, and in

log cabin was Baba yaga: no it does not admit to himself and ate people,

as chicks. After moving to the new home, and then sent a tradeswoman

for something in the Woods she hated Vasilisa zavsegda, but the reverse is

ŝalac′domoj: Dolly ukazyvala her way and not of podpus.

 Kala to izbumkebaby-yaga. -­

-...,/~ ppišla three girls evening hours:

-one made lace plesti another stockings knit and Vasilisu spin,

and all the lessons. PogacHAa fire all over the House, left od, candle

where were the girls, and she went to bed. The girls worked. Here's a nagorelo on the candle, one of mačehinyh daughters took the tongs to the

Edit svetil′nû, instead of on the order of MaTeptof, as if not

čaânno and pOtuŠIla the candle. "Now what do we do? devuŝ said,

Ki.-There is no Fire in the House, and the lessons of our končeny. Got to run

for the fire to Baba-yaga!»-I am FROM the cBetlo pins! said one Plait.

La lace-I won't go. " -"And I will not go," said one knitting

stocking. I oT spokes light! "-" you for the fire go, "cried the two.-Go to Baba-yaga and Vasilisa the out of goPHICY.

Vasilisa went into your čulančik, poCTavH, Aa kukloû ppigoTOB of grace before dinner and sKazala: pokušaj da, pupa, my grief, Ambassador of

Shai: I send for the fire to Baba-yaga; Baba yaga will eat. Doll of me! "

Ka she eats, and the eyes, the zablesteli, as two candles. "Don't be afraid, Vasilisuš.

Ka! She said.-Go where you send, only I keep always

 

OCR page 128

 

to yourself. For me nothing. do not. What happens to you in baby-PIP ". Vasilisa

met, put in his pocket and a chrysalis, pepeKpeCTIvšIC′, pošla

 in the hundred acre wood. -'

She and drožitt. Bdpug rides past her rider: the white dressed

 in white, the horse underneath white, and harness on a horse of white, dvore'stalo

with,

dawn.

 Is it DAL. Shae, jump dpyroIf BsadHIK; the red, dressed

Red and red, KOHe-sTalo rising sun.

Vasilisa went all night and all day, only to the next Assembly.

Roux took the Glade, where c is the jagi-hut of Baba aim; fence around the izbyiz human KOCteJ, lûdckie skulls protrude on the fence, with the eyes;

                ,

instead verei gate legs both humans, instead of constipation-hands, instead of

the Castle mouth with sharp teeth. BaCilpcaobOmlela of horror and became as

dug kiln. All of a sudden goes OpâT′vsadHik: cam-černbIj "dressed in all black

and the black horse; podskakal the gate of Baba-âgii ic, ez, as through the ground failed, ' =-night. But the darkness lasted HedOlro:

all skulls on the fence zas'vetilis′, Laza and Glade staAo

light as mid-calf. Vasilisa was trembling with fear, of not knowing the KYda

run OS. tavalas′.

Soon I heard a terrible noise in the Woods ': trees crackled, dry

leaves crunched; ' left the forest, Baba yaga-in a mortar, pestle on the rides.

süpürge (flying broom) driving trail sweeps. Drove up to the gate, stopped and obnûhav around him, cried: "Fu-Fu! Russian spirit smells! Who

Vasilisa here? "came to fear sTapyhe InizkopokLOHÂCb, CKa.

Hall: "it's me, Bah, buška! MaČeXIHy daughter sent me for the fire to

You ". "Well, the DBF. AZAL yaga-Baba, znaûâih, come you Hapered Yes

I regress, togdai'll give you a fire. 'and if not, well I got you

rent! ", POTOm approached the gate and screamed: ' Hey, constipation Mont

strong, otomknites′; -Gate of my broad, oTvopITec′! "-from the Gates agreed, ' and drove Baba yaga, posvistyvaâ, ' for it is Vasilisa, and

then oppt′ all zaperlos′. Opportunity in the upper room, Baba yaga was stretched and

said Vasilisa "Give-ка here that there is in the oven: I have

I want to ". .

Vasilisa zažg la kindling from the skulls, on the fence, and načaAa

TacKat′ from the oven Yes podaBaT′ Yage food and cuisine was HaCtrâpano

ten people; from the cellar had it egg, honey, piva'i wine.

All ate, drank, all old woman; Vasilisa oCTaBHAa only ŝec nemnož ­

co-kraûšku bread Yes bit porosâtiny. Baba yaga was a sleeping Lo-

Žit′sâ and says: "when zaBtpa I leave", you're CMoTPI-DBoP clear,

House vymeti, dinner sostrâpaj, linen dress, so go in the bin,

take a quarter of the wheat and cleanse it by Blackie. Yes to everything '

' done, not what is scraping off you! "after such orders Baba yaga zahrapela; and Vasilisapostavilastaruhiny leftovers before kukloû, burst into the following

Zami and said: «to the nymph, pokušaj, my grief, listen!, Heavy

 

OCR page 130

 

, ,

gave me the yaga-Baba and grozitsâs″est′ me, just don't use.

nude; help me! ' KYI (Aa replied: "do not be afraid, Vasilisa PpekrasHaâ!

PoYžinaiI, Deacon Yes sleep ložicâ; morning mudrenej Bečepa! "

Ranešen′ko woke up Vasilisa, and Baba yaga has already got up, looked out of place

in the window: the skulls eye die; Here's a flashed white sat. adnik- 

and at dawn. Baba yaga came on. yard, svistnula the reality of

Good mortar pestle and süpürge (flying broom). Flashed red BcadHHK-rose

Sun. Baba yaga village in mortar and pestle ', co-pogonâet,

pOMelom trail zameTaet. Left one, toured the House Vasilisa Baba.

Yagi, podivilas′ izobil′û in all OsTaHoVilac′ and in pazDYM′e: Ka-

her first work was started. Gazes, and all the work has already been made.

Lana; Chrysalis chose wheat grain came last.

"Oh, you, my liberator! "said Vasilisa ' KYKOLke. -Are you from trouble

me cpacla. -_ "Tebe COCTpâpaT′ lunch, only left-responds to the Ku-

kolka, deep in the pocket of Vasilisa. -Sostrâpaj with God, and to have a rest

to your health! ".

 The evening brought to the table and Vasilisa waiting for Baba-yaga. «See the EP.

,

kat′sâ, flashed over the gate, Mi black. the rider. -and quite dark;

TOAbKOCBeTiAHCb eyes-skulls. Zatreŝali trees zahrusteli leaves-Baba yaga rides. Vasilisa met her. "All done?" 

asked yaga. "Big view herself. ' Granny 1-Vasily manner- 

CA. Baba yaga is inspected, podosadovala that the angry,

And ' Ckazala: ' well, well! "Then shouted:" my Faithful servant, acute heart failure.

by other, grind my own wheat! "were the three pairs of pyk, seized

wheat and took him out of the eye. Baba yaga ate, was to go to bed

and again gave the order: "Zavtra Vasilisa make you the same as now,

Yes, moreover, take out of the granaries of the Mack da blot it away the Zer-

HbyillKY, just someone on earth it namešal anger! "Said Stara.

HA, turned to the wall and zaxpapela and in-asilisa priHâlaCb feed

its kYkOAky. Dolly she eats. and told her to Pray: "yesterday's

God Yes, LIE DOWN to sleep; MORNING evening MUArenee, all is done, Vasily.

sYWKa!»

The next morning again Baba yaga left. in a mortar from the yard and Vasilisa the Ku-

splitting the job immediately corrected. The old woman vorotilas′, surveyed all

and cried: "loyal to my servant, my dear heart, squeeze and-w McHugh MAS-l0!" were the three pairs of hands grabbed the IKA and carried away from the eyes. -Baba yaga

the village dining; she eats and Bacilisa Stands in silence. "Well you did not

' ovoriš′ with me? said Baba yaga. -Stand as mute! "-" Not CME.

La, vacilica replied, "and if you let them, I would like to demand of

the you of koj čeM. -"Ask; but not every question for good

rides: lots of bydeš′ zHaT′, soon sostareeš′sâ! "-" I want to ask

ebâ, Granny, only that I saw when I was with you, me

bognal a rider on a white horse, the white and the white clothes: who is he

This? " "It's my day-clear, meet the baba-âga. "Then about ­

..

naA I other rider on a red horse, red and covered in red.

OM dressed; This is who? " "This is my sunshine red!"-meet the BA-

(a)-yaga. "And what does it mean-čerH′yjBcaDnik to-Obognalmenâ-camYh,

 

OCR page 131

 

 

your BOpOTvorot, bababušKa? "-" ÈTOHOČ′

 Hble!»

Vasi'lisa thought of three papax hands and was silent. "Well, you are not

ask? "-this manner Baba yaga. "It will be with me and this; well, the grandmother, said that a lot of you learn sostareeš′sâ. "-" good-ska-

baba-âga Hall-that you ask only that thing for the Feb.

rum and ne in the yard! I'm not, like, so, I took out their dirty laundry in public,

and too nosy eM! Now I ask you: how great thou art

Execute PabOTY, which I ask you? " "Helps me blagoslove ­

of my mother, "otBečala Vasilisa. "So that's what! Get out of you.

From me-blessed daughter! Don't need me blessed. " BYTa ­

Initially she Vasilisa of closet and vytolkala. behind the gate, off the fence

one skull with glowing eyes and natknuv On stick, gave the Eand and Ska.

"you fire hall for daughters, mačehinyh vOZ′mI; they are for

the sTebâ and sent here.

PycTilac′ home run in light of Vasilisa the skull, which went out

only with the coming of the morning, and finally, by the evening of a day of ' goodness of a D0. Coming up to the gate, she was brosit′če ­

Rep. "True, DOMa, thinks cebe, much more in the fire does not need. But

suddenly I heard a muffled voice from the skull "do not leave me, ' get to the Ma-

čexel "

... She looked at House stepmother and not seeing any lights, window

I decided to go with the skull. For the first time met her affectionately, and races.

They said that since then, as she left, they did not have the fire in the House:

 ' u u

carve themselves could not, and that fire brought from sosedei-The

POgasal, once included with it ' in gopHicu. "Avos stvoj fire will

children stay! "the stepmother said. BHeslH skull in the upper room; and the eyes of the

skulls and look to the stepmother and her daughters, so n burn! Those were

hide, but where no bPosâTCÂ eyes everywhere for them and watch;

in the morning quite burned coal; in one i'h Vasilisa HeTpOHYAO.

Morning Vasilisa zaryla skull into the ground, locked them in a house in the Castle, the

went to town and I volunteered at the life to one without, native CTapYške; of

wet herself and waits for his father. Here is the area-TO the old woman says she is "Bored,

I sit around, Grandma! Go buy me the best flax;

I spin Boo Doo ". Old lady kucila flax is good; Vasilisa village for

case work and lit it, and yarn comes out smooth da TOHkaâ,

as a close call. There are yarn mHOGO; It's time to TkaHbe and be accepted,

Yes the bird will not find the ČTobygodilis′, Vassilis inu yarn; niktoHK

is not taken and do something. Vasilisastala ask your KukOAKY and

says "Bring me some old reeds, yes old Shuttle,

Yes, horse MANES; ' I tebe smasterû ".

Vasilisa produced everything that is necessary, and went to bed, and KYkAa-per night is

Cooked a nice mill. By the end of winter and linen vYTKaHO, such

subtle that Through. You can insert the threads instead of the needle. The spring-leaf

vybelili, and the old woman said: "Robert sell, Granny, this canvas,

and a money Grab yourself. " The old woman looked at the product and gasped "no, di-

tâtko! Such cloths, except the King, wearing a no one; I will pay to the Palace.

6

 

OCR page 132

 

the old woman pošla to the Royal houses of Da vsevse by pOXaŽIBaeT window. King

He saw and asked: "what do you seek?", the old woman, "" your King's lead.

česTBO, čaet, stapyxa, OtBe-I brought the dikovnyIKOBInHyIJ goods; anyone OQRO ­

IU tebâ, I do not want to show. The King ordered to let an old woman and a QC

How to Saw blade-vzdivovalsâ. "That xoqeIš′ for it? "Asked

ccaR′. "It is not the price, Ivan kuchin car-batyushka! I'll donate it brought. The

thanking the King and an old woman with gifts of tpYCtHA°.

Become the King of the fabric sopočki sew; vskroili, Yes there do not

To find seamstresses who Did their work. Have been looking for;

Finally the King called out an old woman and said, "Could you naprâst′ and Weaving

This canvas, learn from it and make shirts. "Not I, Sir, direct,

La and has woven cloth, ' said Ctapyxa, this work ppHemblša my- 

Girls». -"So let the Soš′et it!» Vorotilas′ the old lady home

and told all about Vasilisa. "I gOBOPMT ej, zHala Vasilisa-that

the work of my hands subsides. " Locked herself up in her Chamber, started to

for the work; Sheela she pokladyvaûči hands, and soon a dozen Shirts

was ready.

The old woman had suffered to the King and Vasilisa washed shirts,. combed her hair,

got dressed and sat by the window. Sits back and waits for that will be. See:

the courtyard to the old woman goes to the King's Servant; Entered the Chamber and said: "Cap′-the Emperor wants to see Maria working him shirts, and reward

its from their imperial PuK. "POšla Vasilisa and was before the eyes. Royal.

Area saw King Vasilisa ppeKpacHYû and fell in love with her without me.

TI. "NeT," says OH, my kpacaBICa! Do not break up I am with thee; are you

You'll be my wife. " It took King Vasilisa the White hand, planted a

eepodle and svadebku have played there. He recovered soon and father of Va

silisy, rejoiced on her fate and stayed to live with Her daughter.

Vasilisa took to himself a chrysalis and the end of her life has always been

in your pocket.

 

 

 

 

 </Return>

 </Move>

 </Folktale>

</Corpus>





